---
title: RubyMotion and Accessibility
speaker: Austin Seraphin
---

Hello again, I hope you enjoyed the activities and workshops that we
had. Let's continue and I would like to introduce our next speaker,
Austin came to us from Philadelphia yeah, he started programming at
the age of 7. He has a accessibility freelance company and uses Ruby
potion, he enjoys cooking and meditation, most recently he lopped an
amazing technique and developed an maiding technique and started to
publish. He will talk about accessibility matters and how the iPhone
revolutionized the life of the blind. He'll tell more about
RubyMotion. So please, meet Austin Seraphin.

Austin Seraphin: Thanks very much. We've been dealing with some
technical issues, so, all right, so my name is Austin Seraphin, and as
you just heard, I've been blind since birth and I started programming
when I was 7 on an apple 2 E, that was the first computer with a
screen reader, that's how a blind person uses a computer by using a
program that reads the screen to them, usually through synthesized
speech and also sometimes through Braille. In the '90s, after the
apple I used MS DOS, I used windows, unfortunately and then Linux,
then in 2010, I got an iPhone and that was the turning point for me,
after that I got two Macs and an iPad. The iPhone changed my universe,
the blind are used to getting nothing from companies so we felt
exemptcal about apple when they introduced the touch screen, we just
made fun of it, figured they were trying to get good PR, as it turns
out all of apple's products have accessibility built in, there's
screen read ergs screen magny if Ication. There's a switch control for
people with motor difficulties, there's guided access for people with
learning difficulties, and special hearing aids now ... oh, I just
lost my place ... okay, sorry. So, that's how we felt then, we didn't
know then about Apple's accessibility. A friend of mine bought an
iPhone and went nuts about it, especially the touch screen, I couldn't
believe it. Really we were just making fun of this, three days ago,
come on. So I went to the AT&T store with my mom to check it out, I
read the manual the night before, so I knew what to expect, probably
the only person that did read the iPhone manual (Laughing) so I began
using it immediately, it was great, I picked it up, I checked the
weather, the stock, and charts, that sold me that showed me apple's
detail to accessibility, for the first time I could read a stock
chart. As we were taking it up to the front, my mom asked if I could
get a text message on it, and, we are getting all kinds of great
notifications here – my mom asked if I could get a text message on
it, and the guy at the AT&T store, I don't know, I don't think so. And
that's can be a problem, sometimes when you go to these places, often
they'll know the accessibility features exist, but they don't know
anything else; they might know how to turn it on, but not about it. If
someone tells you it's impossible, it's probably not true. So ... –
my mom, said there's a good way to find out if I get a text, my mom
sent me one, it said hello awe tin, even if guy at the AT&T store,
before I get too much further, I wanted to demonstrate some basic
Voice‑Over usage so you have some idea what I'm talking about. It
supports speech and Braille through the use of Braille display, you
can turn it on by going to settings then general then accessibility,
Siri can do it as well. Don't turn it on till you know what you you're
doing, I've gotten e‑mail, I saw your talk, I tried to turn on
Voice‑Over, I couldn't turn it off, couldn't use my phone, make sure
you know what you're doing. The apassing thing about Voice‑Over, it
has two dimensional and one dimensional paradigm, the screen has rows
and columns, in other words, withand hate, speech ton other hand is
one dimensional, you can go forward and back, one dimensional line,
the task of a screen reader is to take a two dimensional out put and
reverend it into a one dimensional out put. So let me just give you a
quick demonstration, we can do all these wonderful notifications, I'll
be turning on my phone here in a second. But we don't need that yet,
so the two dimensional paradigm is, if you just tap around the screen,
here's how fast I have it. (Speaking really really fast) I'll turn it
down for you all. 50 percent. If I tap around the screen.  –
important, I well now speak at ... – got a nice retweet there, if I
tap my finger over the screen, it speaks what's under my finger, I'm
going to turn on my iPhone so you can all see this, if I swipe right
with one finger it goes, and so tapping around the screen is the I did
two mentional paradigm, it also give you spatial relations (Two
dimensional) you can tell where things are on the screen. If a sighted
person said tap a button in the upper right hand corner, a blind
person would say they have no idea what it means. The one dimensional
paradigm is swiping, if I swipe right with one finger, takes me to the
next element, if I type left, takes me to the previous element. Let me
turn on my air play. And – and we're not seeing it now. Great ... and
then, while I'm trying to figure this out, if you then hear an item to
activate you double tap and you're on the screen and it will then
activate that item. You can also scroll with three fingers. And I'm on
you camp script, and I'm on the right network, I'm not seeing the air
play. Sorry for these technical difficulties, I don't know guys, I'm
in the seeing it.  – all right, whatever we're going forward. So the
standard cocoa elements are accessible by default, and that's really
important because that means that accessibility in a lot of cases is
built right N so if you're a developer and using the standard controls
and label they feel then you've done 90 percent of the work. And Apple
does have guidelines, by the way.

So, getting back to my story. After I got my iPhone, I took it
home and I was so excited because now finally I could run apps,
everyone was so oh, the iPhone could run apps, no one told me which
apps, they just told me I could run apps, so I thought cool, all
right. So I took it home, and I started thinking, and this is the
thing to understand about what make it is iPhone so amazing, is that
it makes a whole bunch of aust devices for the blind obsolete have
always been devices made just for the blind, pieces of technology,
limited park et, so they often cost a lot of money, aren't very well
constructed or supported. I was thinking about these different
devices, and, for instance, I thought about a color identifier, so I
typed color identifier, in the App store, and an App came up, color I
D, cost two dollars, I downloaded it, installed it, ran it, my heart
is just like this is the awesomist thing, the iPhone is awesome. And
it just kept saying, black, black, black, my heart sunk, I was just
like, oh harsh reality reasserts itself, the iPhone is not great after
all. Before I turned it off in frustration, I thought for a second,
wait a minute, it's 2:00 in the morning, I can't sleep, it's pitch
black, I have no lights on, because I don't need to, yeah, I forgot,
sighted people need light to see color. (Laughing) yeah, yeah, imagine
that. So, I'll just quickly turn on the color I D, not going to be
able to see it unfortunately, you'll be able to hear it at least:
Her's color I D, and (Button, peal purple ish blue, I don't know what
it's picking up. Gray ish green, see, you can hear the different
colors, pretty cool. A color identifier itself cost 200‑dollars, the
App cost two dollars. And an interesting thing, said remember
accessibility is built in, he had no idea, never thought of the blind
being able to use it. So, that's what's so cool. There's a device
called a money reader. In the States we don't differentiate our bills
ones, fives, ten, twenties etc., so blind people have to come up with
their own system, often folding the bills differently, and people say,
oh, that's so clever, that's so great you do that, no, it's not, it's
stupid and annoying, and we shouldn't have to do it. So, here, of
course in Europe the Euros are all different sizes which is really
nice, there's a device for a hundred dollars that will do it and
identify the bills or you can get an App for ten dollars or less that
will identify currency. There's objective recognition, there's a
device for 1,200‑dollars you can buy or get an App for tap tap see for
free and pay a reasonable subscription and tell you what a can of soup
or box cereal is, there's GPS, you can spend 800‑dollars on a GPS
device, I like one called "blind scare" and it costs 30‑dollars, so,
blind square is cool because it links into four square's database, as
well as – App, you get a crowd sourced, all the things that are around
you, which sighted people take for granted you can look around, see
what is passing or things, this will tell you as well as standard GPS
function 's a scientific calculator, those cost 250 bucks, a five
dollar App, a talking alarm clock is 40‑dollars, of course this is
built right nigh in. Note takers, there's been devices for years that
just do basic note taking functions, notes address books, things like
that, and those costs around a thousand dollars, of course all of that
stuff is built right into the iPhone and with a much Bert web browser,
the web browsers on these note takers are pathetic. Terrible! So, if
we we add all of things up, that's 3,600‑dollars for assistive devices
and let's see 247, let's say we throw in the beer buddy App, since we
near Berlin, can splurge a little to help identify the German beers,
let's throw in a blue tooth keyboard, that's 3,600‑dollars verse
300‑dollars, would you spend twelve times more on astives devices than
you would on an iPhone and assistive apps. That's the difference that
the iPhone makes for the blind. And accessibility really helps
everyone, it's not just about helping the blind or a particular group,
accessibility helps everyone, great example is Siri, it makes me loft
now, and sighted people, oh, it's great my phone will read stuff to
me,sira, yeah, that's great, that's how I do everything. Another cool
example is audio books, the blind have been reading books on tape in
various forms for decades and decades, finally I manage one clever
marketer was like, hey, sighted people would like these too, and now
audio books are extremely popular. Reading a menu at a restaurant,
little things, another thing is having constant communication, unless
you're traveling internationally, of course. So, getting back to my
story, after the color ID revelation, my first thought was this is
awesome, the iPhone really is the greatst thing for the blind, my
second thought is, of course, I need to start programming this
thing. So, people often ask how I program computers, and I say I
program just like you do, I use the visual editor just like you
do. Now, I thought, I'm pretty good, you know, I've be programming for
a long time, I'm good at picking up languages right. Wrong X code
works horribly with Voice‑Over which is apples IDE, if you think X
closing is confusing, try closing your eyes and using it it with
Voice‑Over. That's confusing, the interface builder as well is totally
inaccessible, which is a lot of developers construct their views, I
had to learn how the build views programmatically. So I hit this wall,
I was feeling really frustrated, I head this kind of brick wall, this
is ... that happened until I found out about RubyMotion. Now,
RubyMotion is a tool chain for developing IoS and MacS in the in the
fall it will have Android support as well. Which is awesome, you can
share a lot of your code.  I think that's going to be a big thing that
they're adding Android as well. It's a commercial product, it costs
200‑dollars, I would spend it on beer if I had to use X code and
objective C every day. It balances out. It's fully App store
compliant, compiled internetted, these are apple's build tool. Uses
Ruby with all of it's advantages, you probably know about I since
you're here, the clean syntax, which I think sounds better with speech
it's so clean and concise, you know, blocks, iter raptors open
classes. Modules, mixes, all the things we love about Ruby. Come to
RubyMotion. All of apple's SDKs, and frameworks are available. So no
restrictions there, third party libraries all that stuff. You have to
know enough of objective C to interpret it it to look up stack over
flow answers, RubyMotion has translated docks, I recommend using the
dash document browser. Built on top of standard cocoa classes, NS
object, is object, instead of string it uses NS string, all that's
handled for you, it also handles memory management for you, which
think is way cool, it has rake, gem, bunked Earl, all that stuff is
available. Unit testing, we love unit testing in Ruby, it brings that
to IoS and Mac OS as well. It has an REPL, the read evalprint loop for
Ruby Code. You can actually interact with the Redding application,
which is really neat. If things get really heavy you can use the
RubyMotion debugger, LLDB, it can connect to interspeck processes, you
use it on the device, really cool. Great open source gems, great
community. For instance a gem called bubble wrap gives a lot more
Imatic code for cool things, button up when. (Idiomatic) it has JSON,
RSS nice cool liting thing. Motion kit provides styling and auto
layout, motion lets you build forms, promotion lets you easily lay out
apps. RubyMotion query is a powerful front end, lets you do great
things, setting up views, styling them, adding actions and all kinds
of cool stuff, core data query, makes core data very easily, I thought
I would never master core data and never use it, but CDQ changed that,
and motion bundler lets you use most spannard Ruby gems as well. Which
is really nice. So that brings me to my own gem, which is motion
accessibility. First I wrote some wrappers around apple's
accessibility APIs, I started writing simple games, but I realized
problems, the IOS simulator is not very accessible. It doesn't work
very well with Voice‑Over, so that's why I wrote the motion
accessibility console. So, let me just demonstrate that. I hope this
will work. We seeing it?  Good, good, okay . , no or yes Yes Good. So
we have the IO S simulator here, you see the simple App I wrote to
demonstrate work flow.  I don't expect it to get on App advice or
anything any time soon. What we see here is in this tab here there is
a label, there's a text field and an update button, you fill in the
text field and the update button, so the first command is browser B,
and we'll see that it says Bruceing UI window, it says UIV with three
sub views, navigation bar and a tab bar, so we're going to Bruce be
number one which is the UI view there, is our label and text field and
button, so, let's, the next V view gives you the next view you're
Bruceing, then to interact with something, you just touch, so I could
say, touch, 2, because that's our text field EuruCamp rocks!  Okay,
you can see that's update there had in the simulator, you can say
touch "update" and you'll see that it's updated. So, that's just the
basic work flow, just a simple demonstration there. So, the next thing
I want to show you is the accessibility inspeck sore. So, we can use
accessibility or AL Y is a common abbreviation, it's A is 11 eleven
letter, when you to type accessibility millions of times it gets
annoying. So there you see there's our UI label. And, I don't have
time to go through all these, but I'll go through a few of them, the
accessibility label is a very important one, that's what Voice‑Over
read, when you hear Voice‑Over reading those different things that's
the accessibility label, that's very, very important to
remember. Another thing is the accessibility traits, in this case it's
static text, that tells Voice‑Over how to interact with that element,
there are a bunch of them, static text button image, link, lots of
different one, they're all documented. And the other important one to
know is accessibility element that tells Voice‑Over whether or not to
regard it in the first place. So, that is what you need to know about
that. So, now I want to show you, see, you now might be thinking all
that sufficient is great, but I'm not going to remember all that, even
if I read all the dock mention,ration, so that's why I'm proud to
announce motion accessibility 3.0 has automated accessibility
testing. So, the most annoying thing if you ask a blind person, the
most annoying thing is an unlabeled button in an App. Because you just
hear, button, button, button, won't tell you what the button does and
it's horrible and annoying, and only takes 30 seconds to fix, now you
have to give it an accessibility label let's created an unlabeled
button, it's a controlled environment. Button new, button.frame,
doesn't matter. We're just going to say button.frame equals CG ... one
two Lee four, whatever. Now let's inspect the button. And, you eel
notice it says accessibility false it says you must set the
accessibility label. You can use the title for state method to do this
on a button. So, let's try that, button set title. "hello Potsdam! "
for state UI control state normal. Yeah, good, and now let's inspect
the button. And it'sible true. So there you go, it tells you exactly
what you have to do to make that buttonnible. Very simple. Now, you
might wonder – oh, I want to show you about the specs, so the really
cool thing, I cede RubyMotion has unit testing built in, so you can
use the accessible predicate in your specs, and the advantage to that
is you won't break accessibility, the only thing worse than an
inaccessible App is an App where they break the accessibility, you're
using it maybe for your job even and update the App and it's totally
broken and useless. And a good clue that that's happened is the words
totally redesigned user interface in the change log when ever you see
that blinded people cringe and go oh, no, what have they broken,
because sadly that's the truth, they don't think about it and update
it with some cool new visual interface so use your test that won't
happen. RubyMotion has a little accessibility testing if you're using
the functional test and testing your controllers and tapping your
buttons, those have to have the accessibility label, you to label your
buttons if you're testing them, this takes it one step further. So,
let's – I want to show you a little demo here. Okay, so, this is just
a button that I just did, and you'll see now this is a spec if you
know R spec it says describe the – it's accessible, new, and then
thank you for all the tweets by the way, down here it says button
should bible. Very simple, the first time I wrote that, I wrote view
should bible and code it sent a chill down my spine, it actually
works! So, let's try this, as we know the first thing in test driven
development is to run your spec and watch it fail, right. And you'll
notice it's commented out there, we have to do it to save time, so
... okay. So, we're going to run the spec. Okay. And of course, it
failed. Good. And it told us again, it gave us that same message,
right in the log, so developer just have to know exactly what to
do. So now let's move the comment here save it of run it
again.

Okay. And Boom. And there you go, zero failure, zero errors. So,
that's the idea of accessibility testing in your specs. And by the
way, you can do controller accessible. Apps should be accessible, I
wouldn't recommend you can get confused going down the higher oar I
can, if you say a certain button is inaccessible, you might wonder
which one it is, I have ten buttons on the screen F you is a custom
view, how it supposed to know?  And that's use the accessibility test
method for that, custom.accessibility test equals UI button or
whatever. That's motion accessibility, so I hope you enjoy that little
demo, it's available for free on GitHub and and on Ruby gems, I do
give a discount if you use my gem, something to keep many mind. In
conclusion, the iPhone allows the blind to do wonderful
things. Accessibility helps everyone, it's the right thing to
do. RubyMotion increases productivity especially for the sighted and
blind. In most cases you can make your App accessibility with little
effort and high reward, those extra ten minutous spend labeling those
buttons or what have you make all the differences, and usually it's
very simple stuff, it can get more complicated, often that's all
it. That's true for web sites, if you're using standard elements,
labeling them, doing it, you're probably good go, the combination of
RubyMotion and motion accessibility makes a great come by fashion,
especially for the blind, I – especially for the blind, if companies
like App wouldn't have made their products accessibility, I wouldn't
be standing here giving this talk. Thanks very much! (Applause) okay,
we oar going to try the dome know now that I'm not – we're going to
try the demo now that I'm not under pressure. Should we do questions
and answers if anyone has any quick questions.  I can't see your hand
raised so just yell out a question (Laughing) while I'm getting my
WiFi set up.  Is there any questions?  I'm not seeing eurucamp script
now. Oh, wait, here it is. Eurucamp script, okay. I'm going to turn
this speech back up, actually ... you'll want to hear this, it's going
to drive me crazy this slow. Okay. No, no questions. (Laughing) all
right. You got it, yep, you're rite . For some reasons our devices
keep switching networks, I don't know. Okay. Something just happened
... (Collected, Austin, mirroring, switch, on, it says it's mirroring,
okay, collect, do you see it?  No ... screen one ... do I have to turn
this off?  Now we're seeing the screen again, everything is green
again, that means nothing to me.  Try to put on the mirror again.
Thank you, Rachel, mirroring, oh, yeah, it's switched off. Oh, air
play ... yeah! Okay, yeah, good! Whooo! (Applause) all right, all
right, so let's try to demonstrate a few of these apps. That's
cool. All right, what do we want to do first. All right, so we did
color ID, but now you can see it. That's pretty cool. Very light green
ish blue ... gray ish purple. That's colorI did. Bluish gray, very
cool. Okay, that's fun. Now let's show you, how about let's do money
reader. And let me just get out some currency here. All right, all
right – here's an American 20‑dollar bill, would youn't know it, here
it is, (Applause) pretty cool, pretty cool. And I have to fold it back
up so I know it's a 20, and check this out, this is a fun little
surprise for me as well.  – oh air play is back off. Money reader
running. ... 50 Euros.  And there's 50 Euros.  It's not on, again,
really.  No, the iPhone lost the connection. Oh, air play, it just
works (laughing) what what's the problem, what do we have do here?
What's the trouble. You're right, air play is off again, it's not air
play, it's WiFi, eurucamp script, right. I'm on eurucamp script for
both. Now I'm not seeing airplane. Oh, there it is, it's back, okay,
all right, all right. Sorry folks for this, don't blame me, I didn't
do it, – okay. Are we good ... all right, all right, if anyone sends
me messages or tweets, it's going to be displayed on a very large
projectorment you heard the fifty Euros, cool, it could identify
euros, that's cool .  so now let's try – tap, tap C, so this is pretty
cool, I hope we can do this, this has internet, right – I guess. So,
let's just take a picture of this computer and see what it
says. (Picture two in progress) have to wait a second.  – nothing I
can do about that. So, tap, tap C is a combination of crowdsourcing –
... oh, now air server just popped up again and just lost it, oh my
good goddess, I don't know about this air service thing. There you go,
Mac with pearl – it's a Mac book air, that's pretty damn good, that's
pretty damn good (Applause) and, so, we try to get it for one last – I
wanted to show you blind square the GPS App.  I don't know. Oh, air
play, coming back. This is supposed to be a trial version of this air
server. All right, all right. Thank you, I have a new follow, all
right, getting all kinds of notification, so this will be kind of fun,
because, I'm using, of course, the blind square English speech oh, I
have to reopen it again. Going to be using the beta version this is
great, I'm getting so many notification. So this is going to be funny,
it's going to be about as good of a job pronouncing the German as I
would. So we're going to see here. It's not going to have any idea
what to make of this, so hope that – all right, all right. It's going
to – I don't foe if it's going to be able to give us our location, I
don't know if it's going to be able to give us our location, it
couldn't earlier, but that's not it's fault. It's trying, it's
thinking.Ful (Radius of 200 ... oh, no, this is – okay, well,
whatever, I just want to show you – (Searching ... of) see, I'm just
swiping back through the controls, tools, button, alert, select
action, look around, so, check this out, if I move it around and
people will stop tweeting for a second. No place – within 245 feet.  –
other button ... to the southeast – no places found within radius of –
let me turn up the search radius. Yeah, yeah, yeah, search places
within a radius of – 0.3 $4 3‑miles, to the north, no places found
within radius, I guess the GPS – 0.2 – there you go, N – ... I don't
know. No places found, well, that's blind square, it's not get ago
good GPS in here, sorry, but blind square is really cool and it will
tell you, all right, all right, all right ... be good. And, the last
thing I want to show you, suggested I show you an App that you all
perhaps may have used yourself, except that we've lost our stupid air
play connection. All right, we're going to it to one more time. One
more time one more time ... one more time ... air play awe tin's Mac
book air, now let's it to before it crashes. All right, and here's
Twitterriffic, I thought I was talking about how great it is to have
constant communication, so here's your cam's Twitter, Twitter riffic,
here's the back button for eurucamp and recent tweets, that's a
heading, here's the tweets, the table, I can move my finger down and
hear the tweets. (Here's an important one. Anyone carrying an apple TV
around at eurucamp, we could use one. You can scroll, with three
fingers, so it's really that simple, so that's Twitterriffic.  I don't
think we should torture this air play thing anymore, so there you
go. (Applause) Thanks.

All right. Cool. Anything else, any questions anyone have have any
questions about accessibility or anything No more time for questions,
no more time. All right, well, stay tuned, we'll be doing another
speech after this ... or we doing the panel – what's happening after
this.  We're doing another, and the talk after mine, if it's the one I
think it is also relates to accessibility as well, hope you enjoy it,
thanks everyone!
