---
speaker: Maren Heltsche & Anja R.
title: How Ruby helps get more Women on Stage
---

>> I would like to invite two amazing speakers. Meet Maren and Anja, they are
participants and contributors of Rails Girls Berlin, and we are so glad that
Rails Girls get involved in the conference. They're also members of a study group,
for more than a year and a half they work in a project called Speakerinnen.
This project is basically on bringing women into the community, also it helps
organizer to find female speakers. The talk will have introduction of developing
Speakerinnen, share success stories and show an example of how the organization
already made a change in the community. So, meet Maren and Anja. (Applause)

>> Hi, I'm Anja, I this is Maren. And we want to talk about how Ruby helps to
get more women on stage using the example of our Rails App Speakerinnen.
I'm a trained communication designer, I work for a living as a picture editor at
a newspaper in Berlin. I've always loved doing stuff with computer. So early on,
I was building web sites for family and friends. Two years ago I started
learning Ruby via books and the internet just for fun. When I ran out of online
tutorials I discovered the Rails Girls. In summer 2012, that's how my coding
career started and where I met Maren.

>> I will introduce myself... So I'm a freelance data analyst and a project
manager. And I'm also running an on‑line magazine with two friends of mine
called rose garden. Concerning the supporting women's side I'm active in a
network called Digital Media Women that supports women to be more visible in
their professional environment. So, we both met at Rails Girls. I suppose most
of you know Rails Girls, please raise your hand if you do so. Okay. Again, here,
I can skip that part, so we have more time for questions then. Those are the
Ruby Mosters, which is our study group. We all started started coding at a Rails
Girls workshop two years ago. We were pretty much excited about how fun it is,
all that coding stuff. And we tried to keep that enthusiasm to really learn to
code. Because in that workshop you build an App, you're very happy, but you only
scratch the surface. And so we met Sven who offered to us to code, which was
really great because we meet now for two years at Travis head quarter every
Monday. And, not only Sven is coaching us, but also Matt and Konstatin are
stepping by sometimes, and we think it's the right time and place to say a big,
big thank you for sharing knowledge and time, yeah, thanks. Perhaps a little bit
applause for them. Yeah, thank you. (Applauds)

Our first project was this small thing called text two squares, it was an App
that plays around with text and translated it into these pictures of colored
squares. And, building that App we learned the basicS of Ruby, also Sinatra and
later Rails. that was before we started to work on speakerinnen.org, which you
will see later on. Ruby Monsters now is kind of an open learning space. Anja and
I are mainly working on that speakerinnen database, other advanced learners are
going into closure right now. And there were also some new people joining and
they started learning Ruby and Rails. And, that's important to say: For most of
us, for the people at Ruby Monsters who were in that group for two years, that
learning process really changed our lives, so most of us switched the focus of
our work or studies to a more technical direction. I think that really made an
impact for almost all of us.

>> So what is thr speakerinnen thing we're talking about all the time? In short,
 it's platform for organizers to find female speakers for their conferences,
 women who are willing to speak can sign up and create a profile. Event
organizers search through the App and get in contact with the person. Why do we
need speakerinnen, or why do we think we need speakerinnen? On conferences there
is often the same perspective, way more male speakers than female. Talking with
organizers of the conferences there's often the answer: it's not our fault, we
just didn't find any women. So one obvious solution is to have a list of women
who are willing to speak. There were already some lists of women on the internet,
but they're also created by hand and very specific. So, I wrote to an internet
activist, around two years ago, who wanted to help build a new speakerinnen App.  
I thought, well, just the right project for our group. We had just finished the
last project and it also seemed to be a good use case for a web application. So,
the Monday learning groups started the project speakerinnen. After we finished,
Anne promoted the App and doing all the PR for us, which was very great.

I hope you share my like for info graphics because I'm telling my development
story by the commit history of our GitHub repository. You can see that Anja and
I are the main contributors to that project. Right now, Anja is the really point
position, but there were more people contributing. We started building that App
in January '13 and implemented almost all the functionalities during six or seven
months. Functionalities like registration, search, tagging, editing profiles,
uploading pictures and all that stuff. It's a really classical Rails App that
uses gems likes rspec, devise and so on. And we also tried to work test driven,
which succeeded, some of the time. At the beginning we had a bootstrap template
for the design. But you may recognize the peek at the end of the period there.
There we got the new design you already saw in the last chart. We implemented
that design, and it crashed the whole App. So we had to rebuild the main
functionalities. After that we were really happy because it looked great, but,
there was a kind of motivation rock bottom. Because almost everything was done,
but nobody really picked the App and said, okay we will launch it and we will
communicate it.

But then came the new year, 2014, and we had some new year's resolutions. We
came back to Anne and we showed her the App and she was really happy to see it.
She decided to help us launch it at International Women's Day, which was the
eighth of March. We quickly fixed some issues before the launch and then had
some time to think about new products. Because we said, okay, the App will
be launched and then it will be ready. Somehow, that was a little mistake. There
was the launch and some crazy weeks following, because we had to fix some bugs
and errors. I think that's normal. But there were also many, many people joining
and registering and we had a major database crash and we had to rebuild all the
text structure because people were adding so many topics that they would talk
about. Which is very great, but that was a little problem for our free database
thing on Heroku. So, Travis foundation helped us out with a small paid database
solution. And then, we did all that work and now we still do that work, but we
are really really happy that we have a Rails Girls Summer of Code team working
on speakerinnen right now, and they are supported by Chad Fowler and I think we
will get many, many things done during the summer.

>> Anja: So what is the outcome of speakerinnen,? We are now five months later
and we have now 548 profiles. We have over thousand followers on Twitter and we
have a lot of positive feedback. People found female speakers through our App.
We had a lot of reporting in the newspaper and even some interviews, so we're
now famous (Laughing) Speakerinen helped us to learn coding and now helps provide
conferences with more women, so it's a win‑win situation. The next steps on
speakerinnen is a translation in five languages. Right now we have two languages,
German and English. We need to make the web site responsive, which you have
noticed if you have the page on your iPhone. We need to have advanced search,
and we need funding because there's still a lot to do.

>> Now comes the DIY part, so probably you asked yourself how can
you support speakerinnen.org? We have some points for you. If you consider
yourself a woman, please sign up and all of you encourage others to sign up to
be visible with topics and expertise. If you are event organizers or know event
organizers, please search the directories, spread the word that more women are
contacted to talk at conferences. If you are a programmer, help us probably with
some code review and ticket solving. And, probably most important, support this
movement. Become a Rails Girl coach in your city, support study groups that may
have other projects evolving or supporting women to learn to code. Because we
think diversity is always the better option. Thank you. (Applause)

If there are any questions, we are around the next days.
